Hello all. In the previous session, we have made our dashboard remember things using state. We changed numbers, booleans, objects and the UI reacted instantly. But there is one limitation. All that state lives inside one component. So how does one part of the screen inform another part? How does a parent send data to a child? That communication channel in React is called props. Props are data passed from a parent component to a child component. Right now, our dashboard shows the student name, courses, and the progress. So, instead of writing everything inside one file, we'll split the UI into smaller components and send data using props. We'll start with the course card component. Let's create a child component. So um we have this course card component over here. Yeah. Let me define the type of props that it will accept. So we define type let's say course card props. Um so in my course card props it will be accepting let's say the title of the course and what is the progress in that particular course. So my title will be a type string and my progress which will be number. Yeah. Now let's [clears throat] accept the props over here. So that is props of type course props. Yeah. uh we have this uh style over here. Let's say in place of this H3 what we will do is we will do props dot title uh the duration will remove and uh we'll add a paragraph tag P tag saying props dot progress and we'll add the percentage over Yeah. So this is our course card. Yeah. This enroll button also. This is our course card over here. At this stage, it only displays what it receives. But who will send this data? The sender will always be the parent component. So now we move to the student dashboard and pass real values. So in my dashboard what I will do is um over [clears throat] here welcome student uh enrolled courses. So in my student dashboard uh in this enrolled courses uh we don't require this course progress for now and this add course button. So we will remove this for now. Yeah uh we have imported the course card component. So let me just pass some data over here. Let's say title react and let's say my progress is 40%. In this yeah let's copy this and u let's paste it over here. Let's yeah create another one. Let's say the second course is NodeJS and my progress in that is let's say 30%. Let's say my third course is uh let's say data structures and my progress in that is around 60%. Yes. And now if we check our web page. Yeah. So here it will show us that react it is my progress is 40%. Node it is 30% and data structures it is 60%. Now over here as you can see I've repeated this course card component call multiple times. But what we can do over here is let's say in my uh courses over here I can define it as uh string. Yeah let's say I don't define this as string. I will define this as objects over here which will have let's say the title which is react and uh the progress which for react was uh 40%. Let's say the second one is titled as node. Sorry this should be object. Yeah, this is node and the progress let's say is 30%. The next one is AI. So this is the title AI and progress let's say is 10%. Yeah. So this is our courses set. Now here what I can do is instead of repeating this course guard function call over here. What I will do is I will define my braces over here. I will say courses dom I will say course I will return a function over here. Yeah. And in this let me add the fragment. Let me add this course card content over here. Um yeah, let me remove all these extra ones. In place of title, let me add course dot title. Yeah. And in place of progress, let me add the course dot progress. Yes. Okay. And now if we check our web page as you can see I can see react is 40 node is 30 and AI is 10%. So here we have reused the course card component and made our uh code actually much cleaner. I I don't have to rewrite any piece of code over here. Now let's also see now that we have achieved dynamic UI without rewriting components. Right now props are hardcoded but then in a real app props usually come from the state. So let's connect use state with props. So let's say in my student dashboard uh this progress one let's say it is 40. Um now this state will actually drive the prop over here. So uh let me just add a button over here. Um let me add a button over here after this courses just a tummy button kind of button let's say uh complete react lesson react lesson yeah and uh I will add the on click function to this on click It will set the react progress. Set react progress to react uh react progress. the react progress plus tag let's say okay I have to also define react progress so let me just copy this I will say react progress and uh this will be set react progress okay now let us show this is yeah sorry I missed are over here. Yeah. Yeah. Let me also show the Let me comment this. Let's not use the array one. And what we will do is we will just define a course card over here saying my title is react and my progress in react will be my react progress. Okay. Yeah. So let's see how this works. So if I open my browser, I can see that my React progress is at 40%. Now if I click on this, yeah, as you can see, it updates my progress in React. So I can click on this, it should update to 60%. And 70%. And so on. So on click of this button, now my progress is updating. So now the data flow is button click state updates, props change and child rerenders. This is the real world react data flow. Right? Until now parent sends data, child only displays it. But sometimes the child needs to talk back to the parent. For example, when a student clicks enroll that requires call back props. So let's say in my parent in this particular dashboard I want to set let's say enrolled uh state for a particular course. So let me define that. Let me say enrolled and uh set enrolled. This will be a boolean. So I will say use state. The type will be boolean. And this let's say by default is false. Okay. Let me define a function now. Function handle end roll will be let me define it as a arrow function. Constant enroll is this. Yeah. Here we will set enrolled to true. Set enrolled we'll set it as true over here in this particular function. Now in this enrollment card uh card enrolled courses is this. Let's say in place of this we'll uncomment this now or what we'll do is let's just say let's just define one enrollment card and we'll pass on enroll which is my handle enroll function. Yeah. Okay. And uh here we will just say status and we'll say enrolled is true then I am enrolled else it is not enrolled. Okay. Yeah. Now let's define the child over here. So let me define [clears throat] enrollment card DSX. This will be sport default function enrollment card. This will take in some props. We'll define the type of props also. So type enrollment card uh so enrollment props this will be of type uh it will take in on enroll function so on enroll and this particular function won't return anything so it's of type void okay let me just say export function. Let's not be default for now. On end, let's take on end. Yeah, let's return. Yeah. And this will have enrollment box. Let's add a button. which will have a on click function on click we just call on enroll and here say uh enroll now yeah okay let's not export also And over here let us just import it. So import and enrollment enrollment card from this Yeah. Now if we check our UI, yeah, it says uh enroll now and current status is not enrolled. If I click on this, as you can see the status is changed to enroll. So here the flow becomes child click, parent function runs, parent state updates and the UI updates. This is the standard react communication pattern. Sometimes data is passed across different pages. So like app to dashboard or dashboard to course list. This repeated passing is called prop drilling. Let's see how that works. So let's say uh in my app.tsx tsx here I'm calling my dashboard here let's say I'm passing uh student name student name as let's say Rahul in my dashboard let me accept that prop a student name um which is of type string let's Okay. Yeah. Let's say I'm passing that student name to the course card. Now, let's say, so in this course card, let me just say uh student name is equal to the student name over here which I've taken as a prop. This one, the student name. Yeah. So, this is how the data flows. So, here in my app.tsx, TSX I'm defining the student name to be Rahul. This I'm passing to the dashboard. In my dashboard I'm accepting that prop and I'm passing it to my course card. So this is known as prop drilling which I'm passing from one parent to another uh to the child and from that child to another. So that is multiple levels over here. So this limitation is exactly where why we later introduce redux or zoo stack. So today you learned about how components communicate using props. Right now the state holds the data. Props pass the data. So what makes things actually change? User actions. That's where React events come in. That's exactly what we will build next. Until then keep coding, keep exploring. Thank you.